# DataSites WebUI and Sites Service

Spring Boot App (service) for visualizing sensor data. This service contains the "Sites API" front-end, and the web user interface.


## Configuration
The configuration file application.properties is located in the spring-swagger-codegen-sites/src/main/resources directory.

To change the default port for the application, modify: server.port=PORTNUMBER

### Database configuration

The application uses Hibernate's automatic schema generation, which can be configured by modifying: spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto=MODE (e.g. MODE = "create" or "update" (without quotes) to create the initial database table schema).

Only external requirement for the service is a MySQL/MariaDB database instance. The database configuration for database address, username and password can be changed by modifying the following settings:
* spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/sites_service?serverTimezone=UTC
* spring.datasource.username=MYSQLUSERNAME
* spring.datasource.password=MYSQLPASSWORD

The default database name is sites_service (configured in the url above). The database should be pre-created before running the application with the MYSQLUSERNAME and MYSQLPASSWORD credentials given read and write access to the database. Check the docker-scripts directory for examples on how to create databases for both Sites and Data Services (docker-scripts/sites-docker/databases-init.sql).

### SSL configuration

By-default the application is run without SSL. If you want to enable HTTPS directly on the Spring Boot App, you'll need a pkcs12 keystore file. The SSL configuration can be set up by un-commenting and modifying the properties:
* server.ssl.key-store: /PATH/TO/keystore.p12
* server.ssl.key-store-password: KEYSTOREPASSWORD
* server.ssl.key-store-type: PKCS12
* server.ssl.key-alias: SSLKEYALIASTOUSE
* server.ssl.key-password: SSLKEYPASSWORD

## Compilation

Minimum requirements to compile the application are Java SDK 17+ and Maven.

To compile the application, run "mvn package" in the root directory (where the pom.xml file is located). This will produce various class and status files in the "target" directory, and more importantly, the spring-swagger-codegen-sites-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar file, which can be used to run the application.

## Running the application

To run the service application a Java JRE 17+ is required, and the application can be run using the java-command, e.g. java -jar /PATH/TO/spring-swagger-codegen-sites-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar

Alternatively, you can check out the docker-scripts directory, which contains instructions on how to run both Sites and Data in a Docker container (docker-scripts/sites-docker).

### Initial user

By-default the application is initialized with an empty database. The initial user must be inserted manually in to the "user" and "user_authorities" tables _after_ the application has been started at least once (as the startup will generate the required tables).

The docker-scripts directory (docker-scripts/sites-docker) has an example scripts for an initial user. You can also check out the "Startup" section of the directory's readme - the same instructions apply here with the exception of using the provided create-user.sh (you need to use the .sql file, the .sh won't work without a running Docker container).

### API Documentation

The API documentation is automatically generated by Swagger and is available in the root of the service (e.g. http://example.org:1234).

### Users

In this Proof-of-Concept version the user management is not implemented. HTTP basic based authentication is available in both Sites and Data (and thus, the use of HTTPS is recommended). Both services have their own user and user_authorities tables for user credential, but in for easy of use, it is recommended to either use the same credentials for both services or better yet, to implement a better user management!

## Web User Interfaces

The Web UI is available in path /index.html, e.g. http://example.org:1234/index.html

## Other Important Things to Note!

The OpenAPI 3.0 Yaml specification can be found in the api directory.

The web client assumes that the Data API can be reached on the same hostname (more specifically, on the hostname returned by JavaScript's location.hostname), in port 44441, without using SSL. If an alternative configuration is desired, the spring-swagger-codegen-sites/src/main/resources/static/js/config.js file needs to be modified. Change the serverUrlData: 'http://'+location.hostname+':44441' property to match the correct url.
